feat: message components (#674)
discordjs/guide: guide/interactions/select-menus.md

		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction
				profile="user"
				:command="true"
				:ephemeral="true"
			>ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong! (+ components)
		<template #embeds>
			<DiscordEmbed
				border-color="#0099ff"
				embed-title="Some title"
				url="https://discord.js.org"
			>
				Some description here
			</DiscordEmbed>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>
-->
![selectephem](./images/selectephem.png)

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive menus!

## Receiving Select menus

To receive a `SelectMenuInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isSelectMenu()` type guard to make sure you only receive select menus:

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Component collectors

These work quite similarly to message and reaction collectors, except that you will receive instances of the `MessageComponentInteraction` class as collected items.

::: tip
You can create the collectors on either a `message` or a `channel`.
:::

> For a detailed guide on receiving message components via collectors, please refer to the [collectors guide](/popular-topics/collectors.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed guide on receiving message components via collectors, please refer to the [collectors guide](/popular-topics/collectors.md#interaction-collectors).
```

# Select menus

With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive and respond to select menus using discord.js!

## Building and sending select menus

Buttons are part of the `MessageComponent` class, which can be sent via messages or interaction responses. A button, as any other message component, must be in an `ActionRow`.

::: warning
You can have a maximum of:
- five `ActionRows` per message
- one select menu within an `ActionRow`
:::

Now, to create a select menu we use the `MessageActionRow()` and `MessageSelector()` builder functions and then pass the resulting object to `CommandInteraction#reply()` as `InteractionReplyOptions` like this:

```js {1,7-22,24}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponent(new MessageSelectMenu()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(new MessageSelectMenu()
```

						description: 'This is a description',
						value: 'first_selection',
					},
					{
						label: 'You can select me too',
						description: 'This is also a description',
						value: 'second_selection',
					},
				]));

		await interaction.reply('Pong!', { components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom id is a dev defined string that can hold up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="user">
		/ping
	</discord-message>
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (+ components)
	</discord-message>
</div>

You can of course also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds:

```js {1,7-22}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponent(new MessageSelectMenu()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(new MessageSelectMenu()
```

});
```

### Deferring and updating the select menu's message

Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state:

```js {1,5-9}
const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent() && interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;
	if (interaction.customID === 'primary') {
		await interaction.deferUpdate();
		await wait(4000);
		await interaction.update('Something was selected!', { components: [] });
	}
});
```

## Multi-select menus

A select menu is not bound to only one selection. You can specify a min and max amount of options that have to be selected. You can use `MessageSelectmMenu()#setMinValues()` and `MessageSelectMenu()#setMaxValues()` to select the minimumand maximum of required options to be selected by the user:

```js {1,7-29,31}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponent(new MessageSelectMenu()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(new MessageSelectMenu()
```

# Select menus

With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive and respond to select menus using discord.js!

::: danger
This page is a follow-up to the slash commands interaction pages. Please carefully read those first so that you can understand the methods used in this section.
:::

## Building and sending select menus

> Buttons are part of the `MessageComponent` class, which can be sent via messages or interaction responses. A button, as any other message component, must be in an `ActionRow`.

Author: Thanks, was gonna address the select menus typos today, so this makes it much quicker to fix

						description: 'This is a description',
						value: 'first_selection',
					},
					{
						label: 'You can select me too',
						description: 'This is also a description',
						value: 'second_selection',
					},
				]));

		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply('Pong!', { ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
	}
});
```

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
		<discord-embed
			slot="embeds"
			color="#0099ff"
			title="Some title"
			url="https://discord.js.org/"
		>
			Some description here
		</discord-embed>
	</discord-message>
</div>

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive selected options!

## Receiving Select menus

> Whilst you can receive and handle a `MessageComponentInteraction` via the interaction event, we reccomend you use one of the collectors we'll be covering in the next section. Now to receive a `MessageComponentInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isMessageComponent()` typeguard to make sure you only receive component interactions:

Reviewer 3: As reviewed earlier in the buttons section I really don't like how dated and convoluted "Whilst" sounds here. Translatability (while keeping proper English, of course) should be considered

- `followUp()`
:::

### Updating the select menu's message

The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides a method to update the message the button is attached to, by using `MessageComponentInteraction#update()`. We'll be passing an empty array as components, which will remove the menu after selecting an option:

```js {1,3}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent() && interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;
	if (interaction.customID === 'primary') await interaction.update('Something was selected', { components: [] });
});
```

### Deferring and updating the select menu's message

Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state:

```js {1,5-9}
const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent() && interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;
	if (interaction.customID === 'primary') {
		await interaction.deferUpdate();
		await wait(4000);
		await interaction.update('Something was selected!', { components: [] });
	}
});
```

## Multi-select menus

> A select menu is not bound to only one selection. You can specify a min and max amount of options that have to be selected. You can use `MessageSelectmMenu()#setMinValues()` and `MessageSelectMenu()#setMaxValues()` to select the minimumand maximum of required options to be selected by the user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A select menu is not bound to only one selection; you can specify a minimum and maximum amount of options that must be selected. You can use `MessageSelectMenu#setMinValues()` and `MessageSelectMenu#setMaxValues()` to determine these values.
```

```js {1,7-29,31}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponents(new MessageSelectMenu()
> 				.setCustomID('select')
> 				.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
> 				.setMinValues(2)
> 				.setMaxValues(3)
> 				.addOptions([
> 					{
> 						label: 'Select me',
> 						description: 'This is a description',
> 						value: 'first_selection',
> 					},
> 					{
> 						label: 'You can select me too',
> 						description: 'This is also a description',
> 						value: 'second_selection',
> 					},
> 					{
> 						label: 'I am also an option',
> 						description: 'This is a description as well',
> 						value: 'third_selection',
> 					},
> 				]));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()
					.setCustomID('select')
					.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
					.setMinValues(2)
					.setMaxValues(3)
					.addOptions([
						{
							label: 'Select me',
							description: 'This is a description',
							value: 'first_option',
						},
						{
							label: 'You can select me too',
							description: 'This is also a description',
							value: 'second_option',
						},
						{
							label: 'I am also an option',
							description: 'This is a description as well',
							value: 'third_option',
						},
					])
			);
```
The codeblock highlight line numbers will need to be updated too.

> 		await interaction.reply('Pong!', row);

Reviewer: Should this be `{ components: [row] }` instead of `row`?

Author: Yes, my bad on that part, I had assumed the overload was valid like that, but it isn't

::: tip
This page is a follow-up to the [CommandInteraction guide pages](/interactions/registering-slash-commands/). Please carefully read those first so that you can understand the methods used in this section.
:::

## Building and sending select menus

Select menus are part of the `MessageComponent` class, which can be sent via messages or interaction responses. A select menu, as any other message component, must be in an `ActionRow`.

::: warning
You can have a maximum of:
- five `ActionRows` per message
- one select menu within an `ActionRow`
:::

To create a select menu, use the `MessageActionRow()` and `MessageSelector()` builder functions and then pass the resulting object to `CommandInteraction#reply()` as `InteractionReplyOptions`, like so:

```js {1,7-24,26}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()

> 					.setCustomID('select')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
					.setCustomId('select')
```

					.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
					.addOptions([
						{
							label: 'Select me',
							description: 'This is a description',
							value: 'first_option',
						},
						{
							label: 'You can select me too',
							description: 'This is also a description',
							value: 'second_option',
						},
					]),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip

> The custom ID is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The custom id is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
```

:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="user">
		/ping
	</discord-message>
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (+ components)
	</discord-message>
</div>

You can also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds.

```js {1,26-30,32}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()

> 					.setCustomID('select')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
					.setCustomId('select')
```

			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
	}
});
```

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
		<discord-embed
			slot="embeds"
			color="#0099ff"
			title="Some title"
			url="https://discord.js.org/"
		>
			Some description here
		</discord-embed>
	</discord-message>
</div>

Additionally, if you don't want to construct an `ActionRow` every time, you can also pass an array of arrays containing components like this:

```js {7-21,23}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()

> 			.setCustomID('select')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.setCustomId('select')
```

				},
			]);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [[menu]] });
	}
});
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive selected options!

## Receiving select menu options

## Receiving Select menus

To receive a `SelectMenuInteractionInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isSelectMenu()` typeguard to make sure you only receive select menus:

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Component collectors

These work quite similarly to message and reaction collectors, except that you will receive instances of the `MessageComponentInteraction` class as collected items.

::: tip
You can create the collectors on either a `message` or a `channel`.
:::

### MessageComponentCollector

Here's how you can create a basic event-based `MessageComponentCollector`:

```js {5,7,9-10}
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {

> 		const filter = i => i.customID === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		const filter = i => i.customId === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';
```

		const collector = interaction.channel.createMessageComponentCollector({ filter, time: 15000 });

> 		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.values.join(', ')} from ${i.customID}`));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.values.join(', ')} from ${i.customId}`));
```

		collector.on('end', collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} items`));
	}
});
```

::: danger
For ephemeral responses you cannot fetch a message object, so create the collector on a channel instead.
:::

### awaitMessageComponent

As with other types of collectors, you can also use a promise-based collector.

::: warning
Unlike other promise-based collectors, this one only collects a single item!
:::

```js {7-9}
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {

> 		const filter = i => i.customID === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		const filter = i => i.customId === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';
```

		interaction.channel.awaitMessageComponent({ filter, time: 15000 })

> 			.then(i => console.log(`${i.values.join(', ')} was selected from ${i.customID}!`))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.then(i => console.log(`${i.values.join(', ')} was selected from ${i.customId}!`))
```

			.catch(console.error);
	}
});
```

## Responding to select menus

The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides the same methods as the `CommandInteraction` class. These methods behave equally:
- `reply()`
- `editReply()`
- `defer()`
- `fetchReply()`
- `deleteReply()`
- `followUp()`

### Updating the select menu's message

The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides a method to update the message the button is attached to, by using `MessageComponentInteraction#update()`. Passing an empty array to the `components` option will remove any menus after an option has been selected.

```js {1,4-6}
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;

> 	if (interaction.customID === 'select') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	if (interaction.customId === 'select') {
```

		await interaction.update({ content: 'Something was selected!', components: [] });
	}
});
```

### Deferring and updating the select menu's message

Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the menu, which will trigger a loading state and then revert back to its original state:

```js {1,6-10}
const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;

> 	if (interaction.customID === 'select') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	if (interaction.customId === 'select') {
```

		await interaction.deferUpdate();
		await wait(4000);
		await interaction.editReply({ content: 'Something was selected!', components: [] });
	}
});
```

## Multi-select menus

A select menu is not bound to only one selection; you can specify a minimum and maximum amount of options that must be selected. You can use `MessageSelectMenu#setMinValues()` and `MessageSelectMenu#setMaxValues()` to determine these values.

```js {1,7-31,33}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()

> 					.setCustomID('select')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
					.setCustomId('select')
```

		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()
					.setCustomId('select')
					.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
					.addOptions([
						{
							label: 'Select me',
							description: 'This is a description',
							value: 'first_option',
						},
						{
							label: 'You can select me too',
							description: 'This is also a description',
							value: 'second_option',
						},
					]),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom id is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for select menus
<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction profile="user" :command="true">ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong!
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>
-->
![select](./images/select.png)

You can also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds.

```js {1,12-16,18}

> const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');
```

```js {7-21,23}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
			.setCustomID('select')
			.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
			.addOptions([
				{
					label: 'Select me',
					description: 'This is a description',
					value: 'first_selection',
				},
				{
					label: 'You can select me too',
					description: 'This is also a description',
					value: 'second_selection',
				},
			]);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [[menu]] });
	}
});
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive selected options!

## Receiving select menu options

## Receiving Select menus

To receive a `SelectMenuInteractionInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isSelectMenu()` typeguard to make sure you only receive select menus:

```js {2}
client.on('interaction', interaction => {

> 	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;
> 	if (interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;
```
Component type is checked in the first line - I assume this was leftover from when only `isMessageComponent()` was available.

Author: adressed in the recent commits 👍🏼

	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Component collectors

These work quite similarly to message and reaction collectors, except that you will receive instances of the `MessageComponentInteraction` class as collected items.

::: tip
You can create the collectors on either a `message` or a `channel`.
:::

### MessageComponentInteractionCollector

Here's how you can create a basic event-based `MessageComponentInteractionCollector`:

```js {6,8,10-11}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		const collector = message.createMessageComponentInteractionCollector({ filter, time: 15000 });

> 		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.customID}`));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.values.join(', ')} from ${i.customID}`));
```
Might make sense to log the selected values for the select too.

		collector.on('end', collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} items`));
	}
});
```

::: danger
For ephemeral responses you cannot fetch a message object, so create the collector on a channel instead.
:::

### awaitMessageComponentInteraction

As with other types of collectors, you can also use a promise-based collector.

::: warning
Unlike other promise-based collectors, this one only collects a single item!
:::

```js {8-10}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		message.awaitMessageComponentInteraction({ filter, time: 15000 })

> 			.then(i => console.log(`${i.customID} was selected!`))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			.then(i => console.log(`${i.values.join(', ')} was selected from ${i.customID}!`))
```

# Select menus

With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive, and respond to select menus using discord.js!

> ::: danger

Reviewer 3: danger components should only be used if there is an actual danger of messing up. if referring to earlier sections that this builds on top of, prefer tip elements

> This page is a follow-up to the [CommandInteraction preview guide pages](https://deploy-preview-638--discordjs-guide.netlify.app/interactions/registering-slash-commands.html). Please carefully read those first so that you can understand the methods used in this section.

Reviewer 3: don't target previews, see above

:::

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
		<discord-embed
			slot="embeds"
			color="#0099ff"
			title="Some title"
			url="https://discord.js.org/"
		>
			Some description here
		</discord-embed>
	</discord-message>
</div>

Additionally, if you don't want to construct an `ActionRow` every time, you can also pass an array of arrays containing components like this:

```js {7-21,23}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
			.setCustomID('select')
			.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
			.addOptions([
				{
					label: 'Select me',
					description: 'This is a description',
					value: 'first_selection',
				},
				{
					label: 'You can select me too',
					description: 'This is also a description',
					value: 'second_selection',
				},
			]);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [[menu]] });
	}
});
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive selected options!

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

## Receiving Select menus

Whilst you can receive and handle a `MessageComponentInteraction` via the interaction event, we reccomend you use one of the collectors we'll be covering in the next section. Now to receive a `MessageComponentInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isMessageComponent()` typeguard to make sure you only receive component interactions:

```js {2}
client.on('interaction', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent()) return;
	if (interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

### Updating the select menu's message

The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides a method to update the message the button is attached to, by using `MessageComponentInteraction#update()`. We'll be passing an empty array as components, which will remove the menu after selecting an option:

```js {1,5-8}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent()) return;
	if (interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;

	if (interaction.customID === 'select') {
		await interaction.update({ content: 'Something was selected!', components: [] });
	}
});
```

### Deferring and updating the select menu's message

Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state:

```js {1,6-10}
const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isMessageComponent()) return;
	if (interaction.componentType !== 'SELECT_MENU') return;

	if (interaction.customID === 'select') {
		await interaction.deferUpdate();
		await wait(4000);
		await interaction.editReply({ content: 'Something was selected!', components: [] });
	}
});
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageSelectMenu()
					.setCustomId('select')
					.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
					.addOptions([
						{
							label: 'Select me',
							description: 'This is a description',
							value: 'first_option',
						},
						{
							label: 'You can select me too',
							description: 'This is also a description',
							value: 'second_option',
						},
					]),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom id is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="user">
		/ping
	</discord-message>
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (+ components)
	</discord-message>
</div>

You can also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds.

> ```js {1,26-30,32}
> const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');
> 
> client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
> 	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;
> 
> 	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
> 		const row = new MessageActionRow()
> 			.addComponents(
> 				new MessageSelectMenu()
> 					.setCustomId('select')
> 					.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
> 					.addOptions([
> 						{
> 							label: 'Select me',
> 							description: 'This is a description',
> 							value: 'first_option',
> 						},
> 						{
> 							label: 'You can select me too',
> 							description: 'This is also a description',
> 							value: 'second_option',
> 						},
> 					]),
> 			);
> 
> 		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
> 			.setColor('#0099ff')
> 			.setTitle('Some title')
> 			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
> 			.setDescription('Some description here');
> 
> 		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
> 	}
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js {1,12-16,18}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				// ...
			);

		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
	}
});
```

```

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->

> <div is="discord-messages">
> 	<discord-message profile="bot">
> 		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
> 		<discord-embed
> 			slot="embeds"
> 			color="#0099ff"
> 			title="Some title"
> 			url="https://discord.js.org/"
> 		>
> 			Some description here
> 		</discord-embed>
> 	</discord-message>
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction
				profile="user"
				:command="true"
				:ephemeral="true"
			>ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong! (+ components)
		<template #embeds>
			<DiscordEmbed
				border-color="#0099ff"
				embed-title="Some title"
				url="https://discord.js.org"
			>
				Some description here
			</DiscordEmbed>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>
```

> Additionally, if you don't want to construct an `ActionRow` every time, you can also pass an array of arrays containing components like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you don't want to construct an `ActionRow` every time, you can also pass an array of arrays containing components:
```

> ```js {7-21,23}
> const { MessageActionRow, MessageSelectMenu, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');
> 
> client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
> 	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;
> 
> 	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
> 		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
> 			.setCustomId('select')
> 			.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
> 			.addOptions([
> 				{
> 					label: 'Select me',
> 					description: 'This is a description',
> 					value: 'first_selection',
> 				},
> 				{
> 					label: 'You can select me too',
> 					description: 'This is also a description',
> 					value: 'second_selection',
> 				},
> 			]);
> 
> 		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [[menu]] });
> 	}
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- eslint-skip -->

```js
const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
	.setCustomId('select')
	.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
	.addOptions([
		{
			label: 'Select me',
			description: 'This is a description',
			value: 'first_option',
		},
		{
			label: 'You can select me too',
			description: 'This is also a description',
			value: 'second_option',
		},
	]);

await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [[menu]] });
```

```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `SelectMenu`! Let's move on to how to receive selected options!

## Receiving select menu options

## Receiving Select menus

> To receive a `SelectMenuInteractionInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isSelectMenu()` typeguard to make sure you only receive select menus:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive a `SelectMenuInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isSelectMenu()` type guard to make sure you only receive select menus:
```

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isSelectMenu()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Component collectors

These work quite similarly to message and reaction collectors, except that you will receive instances of the `MessageComponentInteraction` class as collected items.

::: tip
You can create the collectors on either a `message` or a `channel`.
:::

### MessageComponentCollector

Here's how you can create a basic event-based `MessageComponentCollector`:

```js {23,25,27-28}
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
			.setCustomId('select')
			.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
			.addOptions([

> 				{
> 					label: 'Select me',
> 					description: 'This is a description',
> 					value: 'first_selection',
> 				},
> 				{
> 					label: 'You can select me too',
> 					description: 'This is also a description',
> 					value: 'second_selection',
> 				},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				{
					label: 'Select me',
					description: 'This is a description',
					value: 'first_option',
				},
				{
					label: 'You can select me too',
					description: 'This is also a description',
					value: 'second_option',
				},
```

			]);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [[menu]] });

		const filter = i => i.customId === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		const collector = interaction.channel.createMessageComponentCollector({ filter, time: 15000 });

		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.values.join(', ')} from ${i.customId}`));
		collector.on('end', collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} items`));
	}
});
```

::: danger

> For ephemeral responses you cannot fetch a message object, so create the collector on a channel instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ephemeral responses, you cannot fetch a message object, so create the collector on a channel instead.
```

:::

### awaitMessageComponent

As with other types of collectors, you can also use a promise-based collector.

::: warning
Unlike other promise-based collectors, this one only collects a single item!
:::

> ```js {25-27}
> client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
> 	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;
> 
> 	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
> 		const menu = new MessageSelectMenu()
> 			.setCustomId('select')
> 			.setPlaceholder('Nothing selected')
> 			.addOptions([
> 				{
> 					label: 'Select me',
> 					description: 'This is a description',
> 					value: 'first_selection',
> 				},
> 				{
> 					label: 'You can select me too',
> 					description: 'This is also a description',
> 					value: 'second_selection',
> 				},
> 			]);
> 
> 		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [[menu]] });
> 
> 		const filter = i => i.customId === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';
> 
> 		message.awaitMessageComponentInteraction({ filter, time: 15000 })
> 			.then(i => console.log(`${i.values.join(', ')} was selected from ${i.customID}!`))
> 			.catch(console.error);
> 	}
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js {3-5}
const filter = i => i.customId === 'select' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

message.awaitMessageComponentInteraction({ filter, time: 15000 })
	.then(i => console.log(`${i.values.join(', ')} was selected from ${i.customID}!`))
	.catch(console.error);
```

```

## Responding to select menus

The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides the same methods as the `CommandInteraction` class. These methods behave equally:
- `reply()`
- `editReply()`
- `defer()`
- `fetchReply()`
- `deleteReply()`
- `followUp()`

### Updating the select menu's message

> The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides a method to update the message the button is attached to, by using `MessageComponentInteraction#update()`. Passing an empty array to the `components` option will remove any menus after an option has been selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MessageComponentInteraction` class provides an `update()` method to update the message the button is attached to. Passing an empty array to the `components` option will remove any menus after an option has been selected.
```
